# Overview
**Title:**
Chemoenzymatic Synthesis Planning Guided by Reaction Type Score

**Authors:**
Li, H., Liu, X., Jiang, G., and Zhao, H. |
Li, H. et al.

**Publication Date:**
2024/12/08

**Link:**
[ACS Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/acs.jcim.4c01525)

**Alternative Links:**
[bioRxiv](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2024.10.25.620365v1) |
[GitHub](https://github.com/Zhao-Group/RTS-CESP)

**Tags:**
single-step-synthesis, multi-step-synthesis, rts-cesp


# Abstract
Thanks to the growing interest in computer-aided synthesis planning (CASP), a wide variety of retrosynthesis and retrobiosynthesis tools have been developed in the past decades.
However, synthesis planning tools for multistep chemoenzymatic reactions are still rare despite the widespread use of enzymatic reactions in chemical synthesis.
Herein, we report a reaction type score (RTscore)-guided chemoenzymatic synthesis planning (RTS-CESP) strategy.
Briefly, the RTscore is trained using a text-based convolutional neural network (TextCNN) to distinguish synthesis reactions from decomposition reactions and evaluate synthesis efficiency.
Once multiple chemical synthesis routes are generated by a retrosynthesis tool for a target molecule, RTscore is used to rank them and find the step(s) that can be replaced by enzymatic reactions to improve synthesis efficiency.
As proof of concept, RTS-CESP was applied to 10 molecules with known chemoenzymatic synthesis routes in the literature and was able to predict all of them with six being the top-ranked routes.
Moreover, RTS-CESP was employed for 1000 molecules in the boutique database and was able to predict the chemoenzymatic synthesis routes for 554 molecules, outperforming ASKCOS, a state-of-the-art chemoenzymatic synthesis planning tool.
Finally, RTS-CESP was used to design a new chemoenzymatic synthesis route for the FDA-approved drug Alclofenac, which was shorter than the literature-reported route and has been experimentally validated.


# Citation
```
@article {20241208_li_h_et_al,
  author       = { Hongxiang Li and Xuan Liu and Guangde Jiang and Huimin Zhao },
  title        = { Chemoenzymatic Synthesis Planning Guided by Reaction Type Score },
  journal      = { Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling },
  year         = { 2024 },
  note         = { PMID: 39648592 },
  pages        = { 9240-9248 },
  volume       = { 64 },
  number       = { 24 },
  doi          = { 10.1021/acs.jcim.4c01525 },
  url          = { https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jcim.4c01525 },
  eprint       = { https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jcim.4c01525 }
}
```
