# Overview
**Title:**
Retrosynthesis Zero: Self-Improving Global Synthesis Planning Using Reinforcement Learning

**Authors:**
Guo, J., Yu, C., Li, K., Zhang, Y., Wang, G., Li, S., and Dong, H. |
Guo, J. et al.

**Publication Date:**
2024/05/15

**Link:**
[ACS Journal of Chemical Theory and Computation](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.jctc.4c00071)

**Alternative Links:**
None

**Tags:**
single-step-retrosynthesis, multi-step-retrosynthesis, resynz


# Abstract
The field of computer-aided synthesis planning (CASP) has witnessed significant growth in recent years.
Still, many CASP programs rely on large data sets to train neural networks, resulting in limitations due to the data quality and prior knowledge from chemists.
In response, we propose Retrosynthesis Zero (ReSynZ), a reaction template-based method that combines Monte Carlo Tree Search with reinforcement learning inspired by AlphaGo Zero.
Unlike other single-step reaction template-based CASP methods, ReSynZ takes complete synthesis paths for complex molecules, determined by reaction rules, as input for training the neural network.
ReSynZ enables neural networks trained with relatively small reaction data sets (tens of thousands of data) to generate multiple synthesis pathways for a target molecule and suggest possible reaction conditions.
On multiple data sets of molecular retrosynthesis, ReSynZ demonstrates excellent predictive performance compared to existing algorithms.
The advantages, such as self-improving model features, flexible reward settings, the potential to surpass human limitations in chemical synthesis route planning, and others, make ReSynZ a valuable tool in chemical synthesis design.


# Citation
```
@article {20240515_guo_j_et_al,
  author       = { Jiasheng Guo and Chenning Yu and Kenan Li and Yijian Zhang and Guoqiang Wang and Shuhua Li and Hao Dong },
  title        = { Retrosynthesis Zero: Self-Improving Global Synthesis Planning Using Reinforcement Learning },
  journal      = { Journal of Chemical Theory and Computation },
  year         = { 2024 },
  note         = { PMID: 38747149 },
  pages        = { 4921-4938 },
  volume       = { 20 },
  number       = { 11 },
  doi          = { 10.1021/acs.jctc.4c00071 },
  url          = { https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jctc.4c00071 },
  eprint       = { https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jctc.4c00071 }
}
```
