# Overview
**Title:**
Machine Learning-Assisted Retrosynthesis Planning: Current Status and Future Prospects

**Authors:**
Wei, Y., Shan, L., Qiu, T., Lu, D., and Liu, Z. |
Wei, Y. et al.

**Publication Date:**
2024/11/30

**Link:**
[Elsevier Chinese Journal of Chemical Engineering](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1004954124003720)

**Alternative Links:**
None

**Tags:**
review


# Abstract
Machine learning-assisted retrosynthesis planning aims to utilize machine learning (ML) algorithms to find synthetic pathways for target compounds.
In recent years, with the development of artificial intelligence (AI), especially ML, researchers’ interest in ML-assisted retrosynthesis planning has rapidly increased, bringing development and opportunities to the field.
In this review, we aim to provide a comprehensive understanding of ML-assisted retrosynthesis planning.
We first discuss the formal definition and the objective of retrosynthesis planning, and organize a modular framework which includes four modules: data preparation, data preprocessing, pathway generation and evaluation, and pathway verification.
Then, we sequentially review the current status of the first three modules (except pathway verification) in the ML-assisted retrosynthesis planning framework, including ideas, methods, and latest progress.
Following that, we specifically discuss large language models in retrosynthesis planning.
Finally, we summarize the extant challenges that are faced by current ML-assisted retrosynthesis planning research and offer a perspective on future research directions and development.


# Citation
```
@article {20241130_wei_y_et_al,
  author       = { Yixin Wei and Leyu Shan and Tong Qiu and Diannan Lu and Zheng Liu },
  title        = { Machine learning-assisted retrosynthesis planning: Current status and future prospects },
  journal      = { Chinese Journal of Chemical Engineering },
  year         = { 2025 },
  pages        = { 273-292 },
  volume       = { 77 },
  issn         = { 1004-9541 },
  doi          = { 10.1016/j.cjche.2024.10.014 },
  url          = { https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1004954124003720 }
}
```
