# Overview
**Title:**
Using Machine Learning to Predict Suitable Conditions for Organic Reactions

**Authors:**
Gao, H., Struble, T.J., Coley, C.W., Wang, Y., Green, W.H., and Jensen, K.F. |
Gao, H. et al.

**Publication Date:**
2018/11/16

**Link:**
[ACS Central Science](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acscentsci.8b00357)

**Alternative Links:**
[DSpace@MIT](https://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/135864) |
[PubMed Central](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC6276053)

**Tags:**
reaction-condition-prediction


# Abstract
Reaction condition recommendation is an essential element for the realization of computer-assisted synthetic planning.
Accurate suggestions of reaction conditions are required for experimental validation and can have a significant effect on the success or failure of an attempted transformation.
However, de novo condition recommendation remains a challenging and under-explored problem and relies heavily on chemists’ knowledge and experience.
In this work, we develop a neural-network model to predict the chemical context (catalyst(s), solvent(s), reagent(s)), as well as the temperature most suitable for any particular organic reaction.
Trained on ∼10 million examples from Reaxys, the model is able to propose conditions where a close match to the recorded catalyst, solvent, and reagent is found within the top-10 predictions 69.6% of the time, with top-10 accuracies for individual species reaching 80–90%.
Temperature is accurately predicted within ±20 °C from the recorded temperature in 60–70% of test cases, with higher accuracy for cases with correct chemical context predictions.
The utility of the model is illustrated through several examples spanning a range of common reaction classes.
We also demonstrate that the model implicitly learns a continuous numerical embedding of solvent and reagent species that captures their functional similarity.


# Citation
```
@article {20181116_gao_h_et_al,
  author       = { Hanyu Gao and Thomas J. Struble and Connor W. Coley and Yuran Wang and William H. Green and Klavs F. Jensen },
  title        = { Using Machine Learning To Predict Suitable Conditions for Organic Reactions },
  journal      = { ACS Central Science },
  year         = { 2018 },
  note         = { PMID: 30555898 },
  pages        = { 1465-1476 },
  volume       = { 4 },
  number       = { 11 },
  doi          = { 10.1021/acscentsci.8b00357 },
  url          = { https://doi.org/10.1021/acscentsci.8b00357 },
  eprint       = { https://doi.org/10.1021/acscentsci.8b00357 }
}
```
