# Overview
**Title:**
Predicting Organic Reaction Outcomes with Weisfeiler-Lehman Network

**Authors:**
Jin, W., Coley, C.W., Barzilay, R., and Jaakkola. T.

**Publication Date:**
2017/12/04

**Publication Link:**
[NeurIPS](https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/2017/hash/ced556cd9f9c0c8315cfbe0744a3baf0-Abstract.html)

**Alternative Publication Links:**
[ACM Digital Library](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.5555/3294996.3295021) |
[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1709.04555)


# Abstract
The prediction of organic reaction outcomes is a fundamental problem in computational chemistry.
Since a reaction may involve hundreds of atoms, fully exploring the space of possible transformations is intractable.
The current solution utilizes reaction templates to limit the space, but it suffers from coverage and efficiency issues.
In this paper, we propose a template-free approach to efficiently explore the space of product molecules by first pinpointing the reaction center -- the set of nodes and edges where graph edits occur.
Since only a small number of atoms contribute to reaction center, we can directly enumerate candidate products.
The generated candidates are scored by a Weisfeiler-Lehman Difference Network that models high-order interactions between changes occurring at nodes across the molecule.
Our framework outperforms the top-performing template-based approach with a 10% margin, while running orders of magnitude faster.
Finally, we demonstrate that the model accuracy rivals the performance of domain experts.


# Citation
```
@inproceedings{jin2017,
    author = "Jin, Wengong and Coley, Connor and Barzilay, Regina and Jaakkola, Tommi",
    booktitle = "Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems",
    editor = "I. Guyon and U. Von Luxburg and S. Bengio and H. Wallach and R. Fergus and S. Vishwanathan and R. Garnett",
    pages = "",
    publisher = "Curran Associates, Inc.",
    title = "Predicting Organic Reaction Outcomes with Weisfeiler-Lehman Network",
    url = "https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/2017/file/ced556cd9f9c0c8315cfbe0744a3baf0-Paper.pdf",
    volume = "30",
    year = "2017"
}
```
