# (20211223, Heid, E. et al.) Influence of Template Size, Canonicalization, and Exclusivity for Retrosynthesis and Reaction Prediction Applications

Tags: enhancement, single-step-retrosynthesis, single-step-synthesis

## Publication Overview

| **Title:**  | Influence of Template Size, Canonicalization, and Exclusivity for Retrosynthesis and
Reaction Prediction Applications |
| --- | --- |
| **Authors:**  | Esther Heid, Jiannan Liu, Andrea Aude, William H. Green |
| Publication Date**:**  | 2021/12/23 |
| Publication Links: | [**ACS JCIM**](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.jcim.1c01192) |
| Alternative Links: | [**ChemRxiv**](https://chemrxiv.org/engage/chemrxiv/article-details/6153848aef08e609921c1707) |
| Code Links: | [**Official GitHub Repository**](https://github.com/hesther/templatecorr) |

## Publication Abstract

<aside>
ℹ️ Heuristic and machine learning models for rank-ordering reaction templates comprise an important basis for computer-aided organic synthesis regarding both product prediction and retrosynthetic pathway planning. Their viability relies heavily on the quality and characteristics of the underlying template database. With the advent of automated reaction and template extraction software and consequently the creation of template databases too large for manual curation, a data-driven approach to assess and improve the quality of template sets is needed. We therefore systematically studied the influence of template generality, canonicalization, and exclusivity on the performance of different template ranking models. We find that duplicate and nonexclusive templates, i.e., templates which describe the same chemical transformation on identical or overlapping sets of molecules, decrease both the accuracy of the ranking algorithm and the applicability of the respective top-ranked templates significantly. To remedy the negative effects of nonexclusivity, we developed a general and computationally efficient framework to deduplicate and hierarchically correct templates. As a result, performance improved considerably for both heuristic and machine learning template ranking models, as well as multistep retrosynthetic planning models. The canonicalization and correction code is made freely available.

</aside>