# Overview
**Title:**
log-RRIM: Yield Prediction via Local-to-Global Reaction Representation Learning and Interaction Modeling

**Authors:**
Hu, X., Chen, Z., Adu-Ampratwum, D., and Ning, X. |
Hu, X. et al.

**Publication Date:**
2025/07/29

**Link:**
[ACS Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.jcim.5c01208)

**Alternative Links:**
[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.03320) |
[GitHub](https://github.com/ninglab/Yield_log_RRIM)

**Tags:**
reaction-yield-prediction, log-rrim


# Abstract
Accurate prediction of chemical reaction yields is crucial for optimizing organic synthesis, potentially reducing time and resources spent on experimentation.
With the rise of artificial intelligence (AI), there is growing interest in leveraging AI-based methods to accelerate yield predictions without conducting in vitro experiments.
We present log-RRIM, an innovative graph transformer-based framework designed for predicting chemical reaction yields.
A key feature of log-RRIM is its integration of a cross-attention mechanism that focuses on the interplay between reagents and reaction centers.
This design reflects a fundamental principle in chemical reactions: the crucial role of reagents in influencing bond-breaking and formation processes, which ultimately affect reaction yields.
log-RRIM also employs a local-to-global reaction representation learning strategy.
This approach first captures detailed molecule-level information and then models and aggregates intermolecular interactions.
Through this hierarchical process, log-RRIM effectively captures how different molecular fragments contribute to and influence the overall reaction yield.
log-RRIM shows superior performance in our experiments, especially for medium-to-high-yielding reactions, proving its reliability as a predictor.
The framework’s sophisticated modeling of reactant–reagent interactions and precise capture of molecular fragment contributions makes it a valuable tool for reaction planning and optimization in chemical synthesis.
The data and codes of log-RRIM are accessible through https://github.com/ninglab/Yield_log_RRIM.


# Citation
```
@article {20250729c_hu_x_et_al,
  author       = { Xiao Hu and Ziqi Chen and Daniel Adu-Ampratwum and Xia Ning },
  title        = { log-RRIM: Yield Prediction via Local-to-Global Reaction Representation Learning and Interaction Modeling },
  journal      = { Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling },
  year         = { 2025 },
  note         = { PMID: 40730342 },
  pages        = { 8042-8056 },
  volume       = { 65 },
  number       = { 15 },
  doi          = { 10.1021/acs.jcim.5c01208 },
  url          = { https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jcim.5c01208 },
  eprint       = { https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jcim.5c01208 }
}
```
