# Overview
**Title:**
Evaluating and Clustering Retrosynthesis Pathways With Learned Strategy

**Authors:**
Mo, Y., Guan, Y., Verma, P., Guo, J., Fortunato, M.E., Lu, Z., Coley, C.W., and Jensen, K.F. |
Mo, Y. et al.

**Publication Date:**
2020/11/23

**Link:**
[RSC Chemical Science](https://pubs.rsc.org/en/content/articlelanding/2021/sc/d0sc05078d)

**Alternative Links:**
[GitHub](https://github.com/moyiming1/Retrosynthesis-pathway-ranking) |
[PubMed Central](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC8179211) |
[ResearchGate](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/347850498_Evaluating_and_clustering_retrosynthesis_pathways_with_learned_strategy)

**Starred:**
False

**Tags:**
single-step-retrosynthesis, multi-step-retrosynthesis, evaluation


# Abstract
With recent advances in the computer-aided synthesis planning (CASP) powered by data science and machine learning, modern CASP programs can rapidly identify thousands of potential pathways for a given target molecule.
However, the lack of a holistic pathway evaluation mechanism makes it challenging to systematically prioritize strategic pathways except for using some simple heuristics.
Herein, we introduce a data-driven approach to evaluate the relative strategic levels of retrosynthesis pathways using a dynamic tree-structured long short-term memory (tree-LSTM) model.
We first curated a retrosynthesis pathway database, containing 238k patent-extracted pathways along with ∼55 M artificial pathways generated from an open-source CASP program, ASKCOS.
The tree-LSTM model was trained to differentiate patent-extracted and artificial pathways with the same target molecule in order to learn the strategic relationship among single-step reactions within the patent-extracted pathways.
The model achieved a top-1 ranking accuracy of 79.1% to recognize patent-extracted pathways.
In addition, the trained tree-LSTM model learned to encode pathway-level information into a representative latent vector, which can facilitate clustering similar pathways to help illustrate strategically diverse pathways generated from CASP programs.


# Citation
```
@article {mo2020a,
  author       = { Yiming Mo and Yanfei Guan and Pritha Verma and Jiang Guo and Mike E. Fortunato and Zhaohong Lu and Connor W. Coley and Klavs F. Jensen },
  title        = { Evaluating and clustering retrosynthesis pathways with learned strategy },
  journal      = { Chem. Sci. },
  year         = { 2021 },
  pages        = { 1469-1478 },
  volume       = { 12 },
  issue        = { 4 },
  publisher    = { The Royal Society of Chemistry },
  doi          = { 10.1039/D0SC05078D },
  url          = { https://dx.doi.org/10.1039/D0SC05078D }
}
```
