# Overview
**Title:**
Overview of ChEMU 2020: Named Entity Recognition and Event Extraction of Chemical Reactions From Patents

**Authors:**
He, J., Nguyen, D.Q., Akhondi, S.A., Druckenbrodt, C., Thorne, C., Hoessel, R., Afzal, Z., Zhai, Z., Fang, B., Yoshikawa, H., Albahem, A., Cavedon, L., Cohn, T., Baldwin, T., and Verspoor, K. |
He, J. et al.

**Publication Date:**
2020/09/15

**Links:**
[11th International Conference of the CLEF Association, CLEF 2020](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-030-58219-7_18)

**Alternative Links:**
[PubMed Central](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC7148043)

**Starred:**
False

**Tags:**
data-source, chemu


# Abstract
In this paper, we provide an overview of the Cheminformatics Elsevier Melbourne University (ChEMU) evaluation lab 2020, part of the Conference and Labs of the Evaluation Forum 2020 (CLEF2020).
The ChEMU evaluation lab focuses on information extraction over chemical reactions from patent texts.
Using the ChEMU corpus of 1500 "snippets" (text segments) sampled from 170 patent documents and annotated by chemical experts, we defined two key information extraction tasks.
Task 1 addresses chemical named entity recognition, the identification of chemical compounds and their specific roles in chemical reactions.
Task 2 focuses on event extraction, the identification of reaction steps, relating the chemical compounds involved in a chemical reaction.
Herein, we describe the resources created for these tasks and the evaluation methodology adopted.
We also provide a brief summary of the participants of this lab and the results obtained across 46 runs from 11 teams, finding that several submissions achieve substantially better results than our baseline methods.


# Citation
```
@inproceedings {he2020a,
  author       = { Jiayuan He and Dat Quoc Nguyen and Saber A. Akhondi and Christian Druckenbrodt and Camilo Thorne and Ralph Hoessel and Zubair Afzal and Zenan Zhai and Biaoyan Fang and Hiyori Yoshikawa and Ameer Albahem and Lawrence Cavedon and Trevor Cohn and Timothy Baldwin and Karin Verspoor },
  title        = { Overview of ChEMU 2020: Named Entity Recognition and Event Extraction of Chemical Reactions from Patents },
  booktitle    = { Experimental IR Meets Multilinguality, Multimodality, and Interaction },
  year         = { 2020 },
  pages        = { 237--254 },
  address      = { Cham },
  publisher    = { Springer International Publishing },
  editor       = { Arampatzis, Avi and Kanoulas, Evangelos and Tsikrika, Theodora and Vrochidis, Stefanos and Joho, Hideo and Lioma, Christina and Eickhoff, Carsten and Névéol, Aurélie and Cappellato, Linda and Ferro, Nicola },
  isbn         = { 978-3-030-58219-7 }
}
```
