# Overview
**Title:**
LinChemIn: SynGraph - A Data Model and a Toolkit to Analyze and Compare Synthetic Routes

**Authors:**
Pasquini, M. and Stenta, M.

**Publication Date:**
2023/04/01

**Link:**
[BMC Journal of Cheminformatics](https://jcheminf.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s13321-023-00714-y)

**Alternative Links:**
[ChemRxiv](https://chemrxiv.org/engage/chemrxiv/article-details/6376222e53ab80ebb2290281) |
[GitHub](https://github.com/syngenta/linchemin) |
[PubMed Central](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10067316/) |
[ResearchGate](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/369750453_LinChemIn_SynGraph-a_data_model_and_a_toolkit_to_analyze_and_compare_synthetic_routes)

**Starred:**
False

**Tags:**
multi-step-synthesis, multi-step-retrosynthesis, analysis


# Abstract
Background 

The increasing amount of chemical reaction data makes traditional ways to navigate its corpus less effective, while the demand for novel approaches and instruments is rising.
Recent data science and machine learning techniques support the development of new ways to extract value from the available reaction data.
On the one side, Computer-Aided Synthesis Planning tools can predict synthetic routes in a model-driven approach; on the other side, experimental routes can be extracted from the Network of Organic Chemistry, in which reaction data are linked in a network.
In this context, the need to combine, compare and analyze synthetic routes generated by different sources arises naturally.

Results

Here we present LinChemIn, a python toolkit that allows chemoinformatics operations on synthetic routes and reaction networks.
Wrapping some third-party packages for handling graph arithmetic and chemoinformatics and implementing new data models and functionalities, LinChemIn allows the interconversion between data formats and data models and enables route-level analysis and operations, including route comparison and descriptors calculation.
Object-Oriented Design principles inspire the software architecture, and the modules are structured to maximize code reusability and support code testing and refactoring.
The code structure should facilitate external contributions, thus encouraging open and collaborative software development.

Conclusions

The current version of LinChemIn allows users to combine synthetic routes generated from various tools and analyze them, and constitutes an open and extensible framework capable of incorporating contributions from the community and fostering scientific discussion.
Our roadmap envisages the development of sophisticated metrics for routes evaluation, a multi-parameter scoring system, and the implementation of an entire "ecosystem" of functionalities operating on synthetic routes.
LinChemIn is freely available at https://github.com/syngenta/linchemin.


# Citation
```
@article {pasquini2023a,
  author       = { Marta Pasquini and Marco Stenta },
  title        = { LinChemIn: SynGraph - a data model and a toolkit to analyze and compare synthetic routes },
  journal      = { Journal of Cheminformatics },
  year         = { 2023 },
  pages        = { 41 },
  month        = { Apr },
  volume       = { 15 },
  number       = { 1 },
  day          = { 01 },
  issn         = { 1758-2946 },
  doi          = { 10.1186/s13321-023-00714-y },
  url          = { https://doi.org/10.1186/s13321-023-00714-y }
}
```
