# Overview
**Title:**
SynCluster: Reaction Type Clustering and Recommendation Framework for Synthesis Planning

**Authors:**
Liu, T., Cao, Z., Huang, Y., Wan, Y., Wu, J., Hsieh, C., Hou, T., and Kang, Y. |
Liu, T. et al.

**Publication Date:**
2023/11/17

**Link:**
[ACS JACS Au](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/jacsau.3c00607)

**Alternative Links:**
[GitHub](https://github.com/Tiantao2000/SynCluster) |
[PubMed Central](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10751778) |
[ResearchGate](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/375726797_SynCluster_Reaction_Type_Clustering_and_Recommendation_Framework_for_Synthesis_Planning)

**Tags:**
reaction-clustering, multi-step-retrosynthesis, syn-cluster


# Abstract
AI-assisted synthesis planning has emerged as a valuable tool in accelerating synthetic chemistry for the discovery of new drugs and materials.
The template-free approach, which showcases superior generalization capabilities, is seen as the mainstream direction in this field.
However, it remains unclear whether such an end-to-end approach can achieve problem-solving performance on par with experienced chemists without fully revealing insights into the chemical mechanisms involved.
Moreover, there is a lack of unified and chemically inspired frameworks for improving multitask reaction predictions in this area.
In this study, we have addressed these challenges by investigating the impact of fine-grained reaction-type labels on multiple downstream tasks and propose a novel framework named SynCluster.
This framework incorporates unsupervised clustering cues into the baseline models and identifies plausible chemical subspaces which is compatible with multitask extensions and can serve as model-independent indicators to effectively enhance the performance of multiple downstream tasks.
In retrosynthesis prediction, SynCluster achieves significant improvements of 4.1 and 11.0% in top-1 and top-10 prediction accuracy, respectively, compared to the baseline Molecular Transformer, and achieves a notable enhancement of 13.9% in top-10 accuracy when combined with Retroformer.
By incorporating simplified molecular-input line-entry system augmentation, our framework achieves higher top-10 accuracy compared to state-of-the-art sequence-based retrosynthesis models and improves over the baseline on the diversity and validity of reactants.
SynCluster also achieves 94.9% top-10 accuracy in forward synthesis prediction and 51.5% top-10 Maxfrag accuracy in reagent prediction.
Overall, SynCluster provides a fresh perspective with chemical interpretability and reinforcement of domain knowledge in the synthesis design.
It offers a promising solution for improving the accuracy and efficiency of AI-assisted synthesis planning and bridges the gap between template-free approaches and the problem-solving abilities of experienced chemists.


# Citation
```
@article {20231117_liu_t_et_al,
  author       = { Tiantao Liu and Zheng Cao and Yuansheng Huang and Yue Wan and Jian Wu and Chang-Yu Hsieh and Tingjun Hou and Yu Kang },
  title        = { SynCluster: Reaction Type Clustering and Recommendation Framework for Synthesis Planning },
  journal      = { JACS Au },
  year         = { 2023 },
  pages        = { 3446-3461 },
  volume       = { 3 },
  number       = { 12 },
  doi          = { 10.1021/jacsau.3c00607 },
  url          = { https://doi.org/10.1021/jacsau.3c00607 },
  eprint       = { https://doi.org/10.1021/jacsau.3c00607 }
}
```
